okay welcome back
um we're just wrapping up the third day
here of the
gray area festival 2020. um my name is
kalani nicole
and i am a technologist i work as a
product designer for digital products
and i also
run an experimental art gallery called
transfer
which focuses on simulation and expanded
practice
and i collaborated with gray area this
year to design this festival
both the experience the user experience
and all of the sort of areas that you're
experiencing this in and also to curate
the program
and so we are now about to
enter into new art city
to see bin ends which is an exhibition
that's curated by
salome a sega before we jump in i just
want to talk a little bit
more about new art city and where it
came from
so new art city is actually being
independently developed
by don hanson who is also in a program
right now at sjsu the cadre program
we have a lot of friends over there and
they've experimented in this platform as
well so
don has been collaborating with
independent curators
and artists a lot of mfa programs
who were not able to have their thesis
shows this year
uh have been using new art city as a
virtual
exhibition platform um so it's just to
say that this is a non-commercial space
this is really community oriented and
community driven
um don is also doing something with new
art city
that many platforms and people who are
in the contemporary art world and
thinking about
coming into 3d space they're not even
really thinking about
which is co-presence so when we enter
new art city you see all of the other
people who are also there
viewing the exhibition simultaneous with
you
um so it really gives this nice sense
of um presence you get to see names you
can chat
along the bottom of the screen you'll
notice here there's a chat
space um and it's sort of just the first
step
into thinking about how some of the
social dynamics which are so crucial to
contemporary art
can come into this space which we all
now live in which is our reality
which is this virtual and distributed
space
um so without further ado i would love
to
jump into new art city thank you don so
much for putting together this space
thank you also to nikki selkin from the
gray area team for acting as our
installer
nikki's the resident 3d expert and spent
a lot of time in new art city
making sure all of the artworks were
installed correctly
taking a lot of care with the artists
and i'm really well
i'm really pleased to welcome you into
the space
so here we are inside bin ends
and as you can see we are on the
cutting room floor so if we move a
little closer we can see the wall text
welcome to the cutting room floor the
works in this virtual exhibition are
video clips
character sketches sound and textural
experiments
that didn't make the final cut from a
range of new media projects
from short films animated series
immersive experiences
sound installations uh sculptures and
more
these off cuts give us a deeper look
into an artist iterative and editing
process
think of the four rooms you're about to
enter as the special extended edition
of your most prized dvd where you're
able to explore the twists and turns an
artist takes on the path to building a
story
and world are you ready we'll step into
editing suite one
first i'm going to show you around the
cutting room floor a little bit
and also just want to acknowledge and
thank again all of the artists who have
contributed
works for this exhibition works right or
segments from their works
american artist orion barkey and miriam
benani
margot bowman alfredo salazar caro
e jane tonkwa lulin romy ron morrison
olivia michaela ross and bassam saad
so as we get a little closer here we can
kind of
approach the editing suite
and we see there again ben ends i don't
know how many of you are all familiar
with this for me like walking up to a
station like this i think of
the overhead fluorescent lighting that
you usually get in these office
office sort of areas and of course like
we're in a much
more nebulous and magical kind of
environment here inside of bin ends
which is very cool
um so we're gonna make our way over here
and oh there's dawn hi dawn dawn's
actually here with us during the tour
good to see you here don i don't know if
you're in front of your computer at the
moment but
we're really excited to be in in your
universe oh don says thanks for the
lovely shout out
all good all right so here we go
um into editing suite one with american
artists and
romy ron morrison just
load it up here
okay so here we see american artist
piece
no state and what we're seeing is
actually a footage
of the making of the piece so for the
exhibition black gui universe
american artists made a suite of
sculptures about technology
using dirt tar silicone and
old smartphone parts the exhibition set
out to convey an
alternative realm of technology where
the black backdrop of the original
command line
interface continued to serve as the
blank canvas
of digital creation rather than the
white backdrop
of the graphics
and as we look around this room
we'll move closer to this other work the
second work in editing suite one
which is a work from ramy ron morrison
the future conditional
the future conditional is a series of
interactive tactile
sound installations this work centers a
series of conversations about
black feminist futures and the future
conditional
asking what are the things often
forgotten
that we need to carry with us and
what can we now allow to fray and break
and be okay with the brokenness
beautiful work here from ramy
let's go ahead and move on to editing
suite 2. you'll notice that
in each subsequent suite there
is a jump back to the main room the
cutting room floor
and then the next editing suite and in
this case
we're going to check out the work of
margot bowman
e jane and olivia mikayla ross
cool so here we are in editing suite
number two
and as you can see we have three
different works here
i'm going to play the work in full
duration to the best of my
ability but it's so much better if you
are able to immerse in this space
yourself
so i want to encourage you all to think
about spending some time with these
works after the exhibition
headphones are best you really get full
audio quality
and to be able to see it on your own
monitor as well
is a really special experience so we're
going to start over here with the work
of
olivia michaela ross uh i had to google
theophagy for this and this is an early
sketch of a video poetry thinking
about power surveillance and the divine
olivia's eyes are glowing white and
attempting to eat the camera
that she's had for three years this poem
text is in the captions
uh she made this a few months ago during
the spring of 2020.
um see how we ate jeff bezos
sorry it's just loading in like a mango
seed when we had our
opening tour the other day olivia
actually came in to join us for that
and was talking a little bit about this
piece and that moment kind of came up in
the discussion
between olivia and salome so i'm just
going to let the piece play now i'm
going to start it
here and go full screen
[Music]
[Laughter]
love that as a close to the peace
alrighty so we'll move around the room
now to the next
work from e jane
also we were really excited to have e
jane join us
for the opening we heard a little bit
from them about this work
and so just going to read the
description here from ej
the three clips i chose to present are
clips i chose
not to use in the final edit of my show
one in a million mp4
2020. that was the fourth video in my
lavendra recovery series
in the lavendra recovery series i
recreate and reinterpret
r b music videos from the 1990s that
i've collected in a digital film archive
using webcams green screen cell phone
footage and videos
and images i find on the internet
sorry just
here we go
[Music]
is me
it's really nice installed as a triptych
we were just watching the center channel
of the triptych
in full view on the screen there for the
purpose of the tour but
it's really nice to hear the way the
audio blends and see this installed as a
full piece here
with these three channel seconds
uh one more piece in this room if we
roll around
this way we will walk to another three
this is from margo bowman
turn my audio down for a second here
uh so this is a work in process uh these
are work in process elements from summer
of hate
uh summer of hate is a feminist sci-fi
cartoon where political uncertainty
plays out its characters sex lives
commissioned by channel 14 television as
part of random acts
so i'm going to move towards this so we
can watch
someone used to this at a small screen
she studied the sand
and then flipped her gaze onto the
horizon
micro macro micro macro
in both set up she saw rounded blobby
shapes
this is the summer of hate except i wish
it wasn't
because this is the summer that won't
end one that will bulge and twist
without the resolution of fall no burnt
leaves
no wind filled nights no rest for us
from this hot burning sun
i sit sweating through these monks sweat
thick with salt sweat thick with tears
all around me others walk the streets in
the same way
we glide up against each other
lubricated dehydrated
lost handshakes become meaningless and
sex is impossible in these greasy times
everyone's in recovery we're asking to
take hold of what might come next
or what we can imagine for ourselves
how big is your ego and how big do you
want it to be
reach a large billboard nearby ego
ego ego
oh my baby i love you so much yes i do
summer smiled and ruffled the dog's
small neck in her lap
this was the companion who she had kept
by her side in the last few months
her whole life was built around ego
making him feel good
keeping him nurtured watered loved
secure
he needed to know that he was special
that he was valid that he mattered
with so much instability ego had become
the only thing she could rely on
between flabby but well-loved thighs
its small face nestled in a space that
was mostly left unchecked
someone didn't have a string of lovers
who could take ego's spot
instead her went unintended
only summer at night or first thing in
the morning would go there before her
hands were too slick with sweat that
oozed from her paws
ego would only trust her hands the
others
the short-lived men who came through and
left quite promptly were met by ego at
the door
who sniffed them out and let them know
they were subject to a series of
complicated and shifting approvals
dark hidden layers of yeses and no's
unspoken boundaries and checkpoints when
silent actions
became booming catalysts this private
bureaucracy submerged itself below the
shared reality that existed between
summer and ego
like her dogs bark summer's emotional
responses were badly timed and generally
misunderstood
she sloshed between an emotionally
vacant wreck and an over-sharing
californian
ego sat happily her loyal accomplice in
both these situations
the circumstances that had brought her
out here
she'd moved ireland come hastily over to
this real one because the political
events at home
made that word no longer valid this was
really the start of the summer of hate
and in response in fear and in confusion
she'd arrived here
her obsessive aspirationalism was dumped
in favor of scruffy streets
cheaper ren and an upfront acceptance of
darkness
stripped away were any layers of
pretense and politeness that masked an
increasingly less fair status quo back
home
instead this was a place where shadows
were welcomed out into the light
taboos were given oxygen and neutral
eyes and shame was transformed from
hidden baggage to personal tastes
this hate was instigated by a foggy
abstract network with faceless powerful
leaders
only used as props deep change brought
about something so unknown
crisis all the time and yet no one ever
really knew how or why they happened
again and again and again okay we're
gonna actually move on from this piece
now because i understand that the uh
structure is attempting to survive the
video feed is coming through a little
choppy my
my machine is trying to do a lot of
things right now which includes
rendering this exhibition talking to you
with my face
and also sharing my uh live cam
virtual cam in real time so please bear
with me i guarantee you that if you
uh fire up new art city with all of your
other browser tabs kind of closed
on your machine you'll have a much
smoother viewing experience hopefully
this orients you
a bit um so now we're going to jump into
editing suite three
we have two works in here we have a work
by two lizards orion barky and mariam
binani and also
one from alfredo sao zarcaro so here we
go into editing suite three
very different vibe in here okay
i think we're gonna start over here so
the two lizards can load in
um so here we see some work from alfredo
zarcaro's piece uh sonando desperito
excerpts from dreams of the jaguars
daughter
these are partial dreams visions with no
beginning no
end infinite melancholy infinite blicks
uh infinite bliss so these are excerpts
from dreams of the jaguars daughter
clip one is called desiridados let me
just click on that one here
so we can see that one um
let me i want to read this to you
actually it's a three-part surreal vr
documentary
uh where a cheek the spirit of a young
immigrant guides viewers through her
dreams and memories
of the arduous journey north starting in
the guatemalan jungle
traveling through central mexico and
reaching the arizona desert
each chapter is composed from
documentation of immigrants journeys
during the 2018 caravan
using 3d scans drones traditional
footage
interviews and 360 footage so i'm just
going to put this full screen so we can
really check it out here together for a
moment
right so as alfredo's description said
he actually
traveled during that migration
and was working a lot with the activists
on the ground and sort of moving through
these spaces
with this huge group of people
and capturing footage and also coming
out of it with this
renewed sense of activism and all of
this sort of
emotional material to pour into
this vr work so what you're seeing here
are just three of the clips
and this lovely mask model
which is part of the narrative
of the vr work uh when you meet this
character
so they're sort of embodied with this
mask uh
and it looks just so beautiful i don't
know if you're getting it in the live
feed
the details here you really have to come
into new art city to see it
uh dawn went through extra care helping
to install
alfredo's work here and get all of the
textures and the glowing
just so it's really a stunning piece and
here we see the
two other excerpts so you start to see
some faces coming in here
these are the documentation pieces that
enter into this narrative
um and if you have a chance and can seek
this piece out
uh the dreams of the jaguar's daughter
it is a fully immersive vr work
um that was also featured during tribeca
film festival that's where i saw it live
for the first time
and has kind of just been traveling all
over uh so look for that you might even
be able to access it online
i'm just gonna go here to the third
channel so you can check that out as
well
so let's check out uh this piece here
from the two lizards it looks like it's
all loaded in now
um many of us first encountered these
two lizards during
quarantine um so the
artists collaborated to put together
this
narrative in the moment that we were all
living through these things
um and it's very special to have this
included in the exhibition because we
kind of get to see these artifacts
of the way the artists were working so
what you see in this clip are some of
the like rendered pieces and components
i'm just gonna
click in so we can watch this full
screen here
did you remember how it went in the sky
or the empty time square
and it was this iconic thing because it
cost millions
feels like we're walking in a museum he
does feel like the energy is tough
but at the same time i can't tell is the
city busier usually
yeah i don't remember i don't remember
how it's usually like
to me it looks normal it doesn't look
empty
[Music]
dude i haven't seen a friend in so long
yeah this is weird wow
honestly i can't watch scary movies i
can't deal with anything scary
[Music]
hey hi what's up my husband took the
kids to jersey
my roommate left too i have been alone
for three weeks
[Music]
protests are now
taking place in all 50 states and around
the world
while police are being militarized at a
terrorizing pace
new yorkers are resisting the newly
imposed perfumes
okay we're in five are you don't do this
to me scott
don't you don't don't you dare come on
you gotta aim it up so you can actually
see it all right aiming up
now it's been really weird
doing this quarantine alone i definitely
talk to myself
a lot yeah i can't even imagine
you know those dreams where you go to
work
and then you look down and you're like
oh my god i don't have pens
i feel like most people who've been
working from home
have been working with our depends on
the anxiety
it's like
[Music]
yeah so there's so much special in that
piece which um
those of you who were in new york city
or know people who were in new york city
i'm sure also in cities in your world uh
your world had
similar experiences um but there's so
much that's special in that piece
especially
i think the way that these artists
brought real people in to voice these
characters
and the care around the animation
and the community that's represented in
that act of creation
uh it's really an incredible piece that
they were able to produce so much
in that time um so moving on to our
final editing suite here
editing suite for we have two works in
here
we have this piece um by
tonkwa lulin and we also have
this piece over here by bassam
saad so i'm going to come closer into
this one for a minute so we can look at
this together
i just want to make sure i read the full
description here
uh two leather harnesses that came in
through the port of beirut
one from a sex shop on aliexpress and
the other from conwell
a south korean medical supplier they are
modeled by two embracing figures on a
rooftop
facing the port it is overcast and the
humidity is 72 percent
let's just come into the work as we
check this out
so we have this representation of the
work
this is the rooftop
and we also have this lovely model here
of the actual work
as well so interesting that you can
bring into
the 3d environment some of the native
files that are being used to create this
work
that these artists are producing and you
can see it in a whole
different way in a whole new dimension
and last work over here tonkwa lumen
koi also joined us during the exhibition
and shared a little bit about the
process of
reaching out to the folks who
manage this space and asking with such
curiosity about the screen behind them
and kind of became this piece here so
i'm just going to read the description
um click on in
500 lives without debt was a
site-specific interactive prototype
at wat budatai the vorn venaram temple
in elmhurst queens new york
as a one-year nationwide mourning period
was established in thailand
late 2016 temple visitors in queens
experienced a 3d environment on a tv
monitor
alongside sermons and prayers between
folk rituals
communal preaching and state-sponsored
grief
500 lives without debt infiltrates
diasporic places of memorabilia
so i'm just gonna play this here
[Music]
foreign
um
[Music]
future
me
cool
so here we are back in the editing
let's take one channel look around the
room here
um and that pretty much brings us back
to
uh the cutting room floor i think we
made our way through the whole
exhibition there
um so i will
pause here in the lobby for a few
minutes
and if anyone is uh curious about
anything
and related to the exhibition space new
york city or the concept of bin ends i'm
happy to try and answer some questions
you can even just chat
in the chat here otherwise specific
questions for the artist would probably
be best answered by the artists
but yeah if anyone i don't know if
anyone has any questions we'll maybe
hover here for a minute or two
and i'm just going to say a few words
also about the rest of our
evening at the festival so we do have
now
a after hours lounge session
that is coming right up and i'm just
gonna
pull up a little bit of information on
that for you
sorry about that my machine is very
stressed at the moment
she's doing her best to not crash
um okay so this evening's program is
uh an after hours lounge so for
our co-creator and cultivator members
and above you can jump into the lounge
and just enter your badge code in there
and what we're going to have is a social
hour when you enter the lounge it's just
like entering a room full of people
so once you connect you're present and
people can pull you into conversations
they can walk up to you in other words
just like in a room
and tonight we have design science
studio
a design science decade i'm sorry doing
a little bit of a studio fun party
session
so design science decade is an
educational incubator for art
inspired by a regenerative future that
works for 100
of life so their first cohort is in
uh is on board right now and some of
those folks are going to jump in for the
studio session
inside the lounges with us and what you
can expect from that experience is sort
of a round
table a community gathering and
some prompts about the future and how we
want to think about the future
and move towards this vision of building
a future that works for 100
of life and what they really see is all
forms of light
life and that gets into ecology and the
environment as well
as a lot of social justice issues that
we're working with right now in the
world that we're all trying to work
through
um so i didn't see any questions come in
through the exhibition and that's all
good you might not have
even been able to load it up while the
live stream is playing
so with that i think i'm going to close
out day three of the festival
just another round of thanks thank you
to
um zyba jabbar for being my co-host
today
saiba of her visions that's at her
visions on
instagram and um we spoke with lauren's
lech this morning
we then had a conversation with faiziro
and closed the day with la turbo avedon
we heard a lot about the gaming industry
and different perspectives
and new ways of thinking and working in
that industry and adjacent to that
industry
and tomorrow we will be back for our
final day of the festival
we're really excited to have ruja
benjamin
with us for that um and rue has our
keynote
uh we'll be presenting race after
technology which is the book
and um that'll be a great discussion
following that
we'll have a lounge session you can jump
in talk to some folks
maybe even connect with the speaker if
she has some time to hook up with y'all
afterwards and to close our festival
tomorrow we will have a
performance from theo trianfidillis of
antigone which is a live theater
mixed reality piece that our audience
can also participate in
through chat to help influence and shape
the narrative
so we hope we will see you all again
tomorrow
thank you so much for your time and
let's go ahead and hop over into the
lounge
any questions that did come up i'm happy
to address in there
can even give you more of a tour if
you'd like to talk about the works
so we'll see you there thank you very
much have a good night
[Music]
you